=head1 NAME

libmemcached_examples - Examples for libmemcached

=head1 DESCRIPTION

For full examples, test cases are found in tests/*.c in the main
distribution. These are always up to date, and are used for each test run of
the library.

=head2 Creating and Freeing structure

  memcached_st *memc;
  memcached_return_t rc;

  memc= memcached_create(NULL);
  ...do stuff...
  memcached_free(memc);

The above code would create a connection and then free the connection when
finished.

=head2 Connecting to servers

  memcached_server_st *servers;
  memcached_st *memc= memcached_create(NULL);
  char servername[]= "0.example.com";

  servers= memcached_server_list_append(NULL, servername, 400, &rc);

  for (x= 0; x < 20; x++)
  {
    char buffer[SMALL_STRING_LEN];

    snprintf(buffer, SMALL_STRING_LEN, "%u.example.com", 400+x);
    servers= memcached_server_list_append(servers, buffer, 401, &rc);
  }
  rc= memcached_server_push(memc, servers);
  memcached_server_free(servers);
  memcached_free(memc);

In the above code you create a C<memcached_st> object that you then feed in a
single host into. In the for loop you build a C<memcached_server_st>
pointer that you then later feed via memcached_server_push() into the
C<memcached_st> structure.

You can reuse the C<memcached_server_st> object with multile C<memcached_st>
structures.

=head2 Adding a value to the server

  char *key= "foo";
  char *value;
  size_t value_length= 8191;
  unsigned int x;

  value = (char*)malloc(value_length);
  assert(value);

  for (x= 0; x < value_length; x++)
  value[x] = (char) (x % 127);

  for (x= 0; x < 1; x++)
  {
    rc= memcached_set(memc, key, strlen(key), 
    value, value_length,
    (time_t)0, (uint32_t)0);
    assert(rc == MEMCACHED_SUCCESS);
  }

  free(value);

It is best practice to always look at the return value of any operation.

=head2 Fetching multiple values

  memcached_return_t rc;
  char *keys[]= {"fudge", "son", "food"};
  size_t key_length[]= {5, 3, 4};
  unsigned int x;
  uint32_t flags;

  char return_key[MEMCACHED_MAX_KEY];
  size_t return_key_length;
  char *return_value;
  size_t return_value_length;

  rc= memcached_mget(memc, keys, key_length, 3);

  x= 0;
  while ((return_value= memcached_fetch(memc, return_key, &return_key_length, 
                                        &return_value_length, &flags, &rc)))
  {
    free(return_value);
    x++;
  }

Notice that you freed values returned from memcached_fetch(). The define
C<MEMCACHED_MAX_KEY> is provided for usage.

=head1 HOME

To find out more information please check:
L<https://launchpad.net/libmemcached>

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Aker, E<lt>brian@tangent.orgE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

memcached(1)

=cut

