=head1 NAME

libmemcached - Client library for memcached

=head1 LIBRARY

C Client Library for memcached (libmemcached, -lmemcached)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <memcached.h>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

"Memcached is a high-performance, distributed memory object caching
system, generic in nature, but intended for use in speeding up dynamic web
applications by alleviating database load." L<http://danga.com/memcached/>

B<libmemcached> is a small, thread-safe client library for the
memcached protocol. The code has all been written with an eye to allow
for both web and embedded usage. It handles the work behind routing
particular keys to specific servers that you specify (and values are
matched based on server order as supplied by you). It implements both
a modula and consistent method of object distribution.

There are multiple implemented routing and hashing methods. See the
memcached_behavior_set() manpage.

All operations are performed against a C<memcached_st> structure.
These structures can either be dynamically allocated or statically
allocated and then initialized by memcached_create(). Functions have been
written in order to encapsulate the C<memcached_st>. It is not
recommended that you operate directly against the structure.

Nearly all functions return a C<memcached_return_t> value.
This value can be translated to a printable string with memcached_strerror(3).

Partitioning based on keys is supported in the library. Using the key partioning 
functions it is possible to group sets of object onto servers.

C<memcached_st> structures are thread-safe, but each thread must
contain its own structure (that is, if you want to share these among
threads you must provide your own locking). No global variables are
used in this library.

If you are working with GNU autotools you will want to add the following to
your configure.ac to properly include libmemcached in your application. 

PKG_CHECK_MODULES(DEPS, libmemcached >= 0.8.0)
AC_SUBST(DEPS_CFLAGS)
AC_SUBST(DEPS_LIBS)

Some features of the library must be enabled through memcached_behavior_set(). 

Hope you enjoy it!

=head1 CONSTANTS

A number of constants have been provided for in the library.

=over 4

=item MEMCACHED_DEFAULT_PORT

The default port used by memcached(3).

=item MEMCACHED_MAX_KEY

Default maximum size of a key (which includes the null pointer). Master keys
have no limit, this only applies to keys used for storage.

=item MEMCACHED_MAX_KEY

Default size of key (which includes the null pointer).

=item MEMCACHED_STRIDE

This is the "stride" used in the consistent hash used between replicas.

=item MEMCACHED_MAX_HOST_LENGTH

Maximum allowed size of the hostname.

=item MEMCACHED_VERSION_STRING

String value of libmemcached version such as "1.23.4"

=item MEMCACHED_MAJOR_VERSION

Major version value. Such as 1.23.4, would be 1 

=item MEMCACHED_MINOR_VERSION

Major version value. Such as 1.23.4, would be 23 

=item MEMCACHED_MICRO_VERSION

Major version value. Such as 1.23.4, would be 4 


=back



=head1 THREADS AND PROCESSES

When using threads or forked processes it is important to keep an instance
of C<memcached_st> per process or thread. Without creating your own locking
structures you can not share a single C<memcached_st>. You can though call
memcached_quit(3) on a C<memcached_st> and then use the resulting cloned
structure.

=head1 HOME

To find out more information please check:
L<https://launchpad.net/libmemcached>

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Aker, E<lt>brian@tangent.orgE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

memcached(1) libmemcached_examples(3) libmemcached(1) memcat(1) memcp(1) memflush(1) memrm(1) memslap(1) memstat(1) memcached_fetch(3) memcached_replace(3) memcached_server_list_free(3) libmemcached_examples(3) memcached_clone(3) memcached_free(3) memcached_server_add(3) memcached_server_push(3) memcached_add(3) memcached_get(3) memcached_server_count(3) memcached_servers_parse(3) memcached_create(3) memcached_increment(3) memcached_server_list(3) memcached_set(3) memcached_decrement(3) memcached_mget(3) memcached_server_list_append(3) memcached_strerror(3) memcached_delete(3) memcached_quit(3) memcached_server_list_count(3) memcached_verbosity(3) memcached_server_add_unix_socket(3) memcached_result_create(3)  memcached_result_free(3)  memcached_result_key_value(3)  memcached_result_key_length(3)  memcached_result_value(3)  memcached_result_length(3)  memcached_result_flags(3)  memcached_result_cas(3) memcached_result_st(3) memcached_append(3) memcached_prepend(3) memcached_fetch_result(3) memerror(1) memcached_get_by_key(3) memcached_mget_by_key(3) memcached_delete_by_key(3) memcached_fetch_execute(3) memcached_callback_get(3) memcached_callback_set(3) memcached_version(3) memcached_lib_version(3) memcached_result_set_value(3) memcached_dump(3) memdump(1) memcached_set_memory_allocators(3) memcached_get_memory_allocators(3) memcached_get_user_data(3) memcached_set_user_data(3)

=cut

