=head1 NAME

memcached_pool_create, memcached_pool_destroy, memcached_pool_push, memcached_pool_pop - Manage pools

=head1 LIBRARY

C Client Library for memcached (libmemcachedutil, -lmemcachedutil)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <libmemcached/memcached_pool.h>

  memcached_pool_st *
    memcached_pool_create(memcached_st* mmc, int initial, int max);

  memcached_st *
    memcached_pool_destroy(memcached_pool_st* pool);

  memcached_st *
    memcached_pool_pop (memcached_pool_st* pool, bool block, memcached_return_t *rc);

  memcached_return_t
    memcached_pool_push(memcached_pool_st* pool, memcached_st *mmc);

  memcached_st *memcached_create (memcached_st *ptr);

  memcached_return_t
    memcached_pool_behavior_set(memcached_pool_st *pool,
                                memcached_behavior_t flag,
                                uint64_t data)

  memcached_return_t
    memcached_pool_behavior_get(memcached_pool_st *pool,
                                memcached_behavior_t flag,
                                uint64_t *value)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

memcached_pool_create() is used to create a connection pool of objects you
may use to remove the overhead of using memcached_clone for short
lived C<memcached_st> objects. The mmc argument should be an
initialised C<memcached_st> structure, and a successfull invocation of
memcached_pool_create takes full ownership of the variable (until it
is released by memcached_pool_destroy). The C<initial> argument
specifies the initial size of the connection pool, and the C<max>
argument specifies the maximum size the connection pool should grow
to. Please note that the library will allocate a fixed size buffer
scaled to the max size of the connection pool, so you should not pass
MAXINT or some other large number here.

memcached_pool_destroy() is used to destroy the connection pool
created with memcached_pool_create() and release all allocated
resources. It will return the pointer to the C<memcached_st> structure
passed as an argument to memcached_pool_create(), and returns the
ownership of the pointer to the caller.

memcached_pool_pop() is used to grab a connection structure from the
connection pool. The block argument specifies if the function should
block and wait for a connection structure to be available if we try
to exceed the maximum size.

memcached_pool_push() is used to return a connection structure back to the pool.

memcached_pool_behavior_set() and memcached_pool_behagior_get() is
used to get/set behavior flags on all connections in the pool.


=head1 RETURN

memcached_pool_create() returns a pointer to the newly created
memcached_pool_st structure. On an allocation failure, it returns
NULL.

memcached_pool_destroy() returns the pointer (and ownership) to the
memcached_st structure used to create the pool. If connections are in
use it returns NULL.

memcached_pool_pop() returns a pointer to a memcached_st structure
from the pool (or NULL if an allocation cannot be satisfied).

memcached_pool_push() returns MEMCACHED_SUCCESS upon success.

memcached_pool_behavior_get() and memcached_pool_behavior_get()
returns MEMCACHED_SUCCESS upon success.

=head1 HOME

To find out more information please check:
L<https://launchpad.net/libmemcached>

=head1 AUTHOR

Trond Norbye, E<lt>trond.norbye@gmail.comE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

memcached(1) libmemcached(3) memcached_create(3) memcached_free(3) libmemcachedutil(3) memcached_behavior_get(3) memcached_behavior_set(3)

=cut
