=head1 NAME

memcached_create, memcached_free, memcached_clone, memcached_servers_reset- Create a memcached_st structure

=head1 LIBRARY

C Client Library for memcached (libmemcached, -lmemcached)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <memcached.h>

  memcached_st *memcached_create (memcached_st *ptr);

  void memcached_free (memcached_st *ptr);

  memcached_st *memcached_clone (memcached_st *destination, memcached_st *source);

  void memcached_servers_reset(memcached_st);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

memcached_create() is used to create a C<memcached_st> structure that will then
be used by other libmemcached(3) functions to communicate with the server. You
should either pass a statically declared C<memcached_st> to memcached_create() or
a NULL. If a NULL passed in then a structure is allocated for you.

memcached_clone() is similar to memcached_create(3) but it copies the
defaults and list of servers from the source C<memcached_st>. If you pass a null as
the argument for the source to clone, it is the same as a call to memcached_create().
If the destination argument is NULL a C<memcached_st> will be allocated for you.

memcached_servers_reset() allows you to zero out the list of servers that
the memcached_st has.

To clean up memory associated with a C<memcached_st> structure you should pass
it to memcached_free() when you are finished using it. memcached_free() is
the only way to make sure all memory is deallocated when you finish using
the structure.

You may wish to avoid using memcached_create(3) or memcached_clone(3) with a
stack based allocation. The most common issues related to ABI safety involve
heap allocated structures.

=head1 RETURN

memcached_create() returns a pointer to the memcached_st that was created
(or initialized). On an allocation failure, it returns NULL.

memcached_clone() returns a pointer to the memcached_st that was created
(or initialized). On an allocation failure, it returns NULL.

=head1 HOME

To find out more information please check:
L<https://launchpad.net/libmemcached>

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Aker, E<lt>brian@tangent.orgE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

memcached(1) libmemcached(3) memcached_strerror(3)

=cut

