=head1 NAME

memcached_server_count, memcached_server_list, memcached_server_add, memcached_server_push, memcached_server_get_last_disconnect, memcached_server_cursor - Manage server list

=head1 LIBRARY

C Client Library for memcached (libmemcached, -lmemcached)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <memcached.h>

  uint32_t memcached_server_count (memcached_st *ptr);

  memcached_return_t
    memcached_server_add (memcached_st *ptr,
                          const char *hostname,
                          in_port_t port);

  memcached_return_t
    memcached_server_add_udp (memcached_st *ptr,
			      const char *hostname,
			      in_port_t port);

  memcached_return_t
    memcached_server_add_unix_socket (memcached_st *ptr,
                                      const char *socket);

  memcached_return_t
    memcached_server_push (memcached_st *ptr,
                           const memcached_server_st *list);

  memcached_server_instance_st
    memcached_server_by_key (const memcached_st *ptr,
                             const char *key,
			     size_t key_length,
                             memcached_return_t *error);

  memcached_server_instance_st
    memcached_server_get_last_disconnect (const memcached_st *ptr)

  memcached_return_t
    memcached_server_cursor(const memcached_st *ptr,
			    const memcached_server_fn *callback,
			    void *context,
			    uint32_t number_of_callbacks);


=head1 DESCRIPTION

libmemcached(3) performs operations on a list of hosts. The order of these
hosts determine routing to keys. Functions are provided to add keys to
memcached_st structures. To manipulate lists of servers see
memcached_server_st(3).

memcached_server_count() provides you a count of the current number of
servers being used by a C<memcached_st> structure.

memcached_server_add() pushes a single TCP server into the C<memcached_st>
structure. This server will be placed at the end. Duplicate servers are
allowed, so duplication is not checked. Executing this function with the
C<MEMCACHED_BEHAVIOR_USE_UDP> behavior set will result in a
C<MEMCACHED_INVALID_HOST_PROTOCOL>.

memcached_server_add_udp() pushes a single UDP server into the C<memcached_st>
structure. This server will be placed at the end. Duplicate servers are
allowed, so duplication is not checked. Executing this function with out
setting the C<MEMCACHED_BEHAVIOR_USE_UDP> behavior will result in a
C<MEMCACHED_INVALID_HOST_PROTOCOL>.

memcached_server_add_unix_socket() pushes a single UNIX socket into the
C<memcached_st> structure. This UNIX socket will be placed at the end.
Duplicate servers are allowed, so duplication is not checked. The length
of the filename must be one character less then MEMCACHED_MAX_HOST_LENGTH.

memcached_server_push() pushes an array of C<memcached_server_st> into
the C<memcached_st> structure. These servers will be placed at the
end. Duplicate servers are allowed, so duplication is not checked. A
copy is made of structure so the list provided (and any operations on
the list) are not saved.

memcached_server_by_key() allows you to provide a key and retrieve the
server which would be used for assignment. This structure is cloned
from its original structure and must be freed. If NULL is returned you
should consult *error. The returning structure should be freed with
memcached_server_free().

memcached_server_get_last_disconnect() returns a pointer to the last server
for which there was a connection problem. It does not mean this particular
server is currently dead but if the library is reporting a server is,
the returned server is a very good candidate.

memcached_server_cursor() takes a memcached_st and loops through the 
list of hosts currently in the cursor calling the list of callback 
functions provided. You can optionally pass in a value via 
context which will be provided to each callback function. An error
return from any callback will terminate the loop. memcached_server_cursor()
is passed the original caller memcached_st in its current state. 

=head1 RETURN

Varies, see particular functions.

=head1 HOME

To find out more information please check:
L<https://launchpad.net/libmemcached>

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Aker, E<lt>brian@tangent.orgE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

memcached(1) libmemcached(3) memcached_strerror(3)

=cut

