Copyright (c)  2011 Hexagram 49, Inc. All rights reserved.

This package is licensed under RethinkDB License Agreement, reproduced below.

This package is not part of the Debian GNU/Linux distribution.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RethinkDB License Agreement

By intalling or using this software, you are agreeing to be bound by and are
becoming a party to this license agreement ("Agreement"). If you do not agree
to all of the terms of this agreement, do not click the "Agree" checkbox or
proceed with download or installation. These terms are considered an offer,
acceptance is expressly limited to these terms.

1. GRANT. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Hexagram 49, Inc. ("Company")
hereby grants you (and only you) a limited, personal, non-sublicensable,
non-transferable, royalty-free, nonexclusive license to use the software that
you are about to download ("Software") only in your organization and only in
accordance with any documentation that accompanies it.

2. RESTRICTIONS. You may not, directly or indirectly: copy, distribute, rent,
lease, timeshare, operate a service bureau with, use for the benefit of a third
party, reverse engineer, disassemble, decompile, attempt to discover the source
code or structure, sequence and organization of, or remove any proprietary
notices from, the Software. As between the parties, title, ownership rights,
and intellectual property rights in and to the Software, and any copies or
portions thereof, shall remain in Company and its suppliers or licensors. You
understand that Company may modify or discontinue offering the Software at any
time. The Software is protected by the copyright laws of the United States and
international copyright treaties. This Agreement does not give you any rights
not expressly granted herein.

3. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY; CONTENT. As a condition to your use of the Software,
you represent, warrant and covenant that you will not use the Software: (i) to
infringe the intellectual property rights or proprietary rights, or rights of
publicity or privacy, of any third party; (ii) to violate any applicable law,
statute, ordinance or regulation; (iii) to disseminate information or materials
in any form or format ("Content") that is harmful, threatening, abusive,
harassing, tortuous, defamatory, vulgar, obscene, libelous, or otherwise
objectionable under applicable laws; or (iv) to disseminate any software
viruses or any other computer code, files or programs that may interrupt,
destroy or limit the functionality of any computer software or hardware or
telecommunications equipment. You, not Company, remain solely responsible for
all Content that you upload, post, email, transmit, or otherwise disseminate
using, or in connection with, the Software. You acknowledge that all Content
that you access using the Software is at your own risk and you will be solely
responsible for any damage to any party resulting therefrom.

4. SUPPORT AND UPGRADES. This Agreement does not entitle you to any support,
upgrades, patches, enhancements, or fixes for the Software (collectively,
"Support"). Any such Support for the Software that may be made available by
Company shall become part of the Software and subject to this Agreement.

5. INDEMNITY. You agree that Company shall have no liability whatsoever for any
use you or any third party make of the Software. You hereby agree to indemnify
and hold harmless Company from any and all damages, liability, costs, and
expenses (including attorney’s fees) arising from claims related to your use,
and your customers’ use, of the Software.

6. WARRANTY DISCLAIMER. Company provides the software "as is" and without
warranty of any kind, and company hereby disclaims all express or implied
warranties, including without limitation warranties of merchantability, fitness
for a particular purpose, performance, accuracy, reliability, and
non-infringement. This disclaimer of warranty constitutes an essential part of
this agreement.

7. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. Under no circumstances and under no legal theory,
including, without limitation, tort, contract, strict liability, or otherwise,
shall company or its licensors, suppliers or resellers be liable to you or any
other person for any indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of
any character including, without limitation, damages for lost profits, loss of
goodwill, work stoppage, accuracy of results, computer failure or malfunction,
damages resulting from your use of the software. Company’s liability for
damages of any kind whatsoever arising out of this agreement shall be limited
to the greater of the fees paid by you hereunder or $100.

8. TERMINATION. You may terminate this Agreement and the license granted herein
at any time by destroying or removing from all computers, networks, and storage
media all copies of the Software. Company may terminate this Agreement and the
license granted herein immediately if you breach any provision of this
Agreement. Upon receiving notice of termination from Company you will destroy
or remove from all computers, networks, and storage media all copies of the
Software. Sections 2 and 4 through 10 shall survive termination of this
Agreement.

9. EXPORT CONTROLS. You shall comply with all export laws and restrictions and
regulations of the Department of Commerce, the United States Department of
Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"), or other United States or
foreign agency or authority, and not to export, or allow the export or
re-export of the Software in violation of any such restrictions, laws or
regulations. By downloading or using the Software, You are agreeing to the
foregoing and You are representing and warranting that You are not located in,
under the control of, or a national or resident of any restricted country or on
any such list.

10. GOVERNMENT USE. If you are part of an agency, department, or other entity
of the United States Government ("Government"), the use, duplication,
reproduction, release, modification, disclosure or transfer of the Software is
restricted in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations as applied to
civilian agencies and the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement as
applied to military agencies. The Software is a "commercial item," "commercial
computer software" and "commercial computer software documentation." In
accordance with such provisions, any use of the Software by the Government
shall be governed solely by the terms of this Agreement.

11. MISCELLANEOUS. You shall comply with all applicable export laws,
restrictions and regulations in connection with your use of the Software, and
will not export or re-export the Software in violation thereof. This Agreement
is personal to you and you shall not assign or transfer the Agreement or the
Software to any third party under any circumstances. This Agreement represents
the complete agreement concerning this license between the parties and
supersedes all prior agreements and representations between them. It may be
amended only by a writing executed by both parties. If any provision of this
Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, such provision shall be
reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. This Agreement
shall be governed by and construed under California law as such law applies to
agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed within
California.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SuperFastHash routines used in RethinkDB

Copyright (c) 2010, Paul Hsieh
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
    list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.  
  - Neither my name, Paul Hsieh, nor the names of any other contributors to the
    code use may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
    software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
http-parser routines used in RethinkDB

http_parser.c is based on src/http/ngx_http_parse.c from NGINX copyright
Igor Sysoev.

Additional changes are licensed under the same terms as NGINX and
copyright Joyent, Inc. and other Node contributors. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
IN THE SOFTWARE. 

